Welcome to the Petty Profit Podcast weekly man hug edition.
This is a longer one.
So we're just going to jump right into it.
And what we did this week is each of us brought a subject to the table.
And we kind of surprised the other two with it.
So each of us had something that we wanted to talk about.
And we took turns discussing each subject that we had chosen.
And the other two kind of just had to roll with it.
It was, you know, it was interesting.
We're just trying to different, you know, different format here.
Aaron's subject was about having friends in the church and outside the church who are true believers in critical race theory and kind of the whole woke doctrine, how to navigate friendships and relationships with people like that.
And then I brought up the subject of education.
We talked about just the state of education.
How can we change this?
How can we turn this around?
What should we be doing with our own kids?
Should we be pulling them out of the system?
Should we be keeping them in the system to try to improve it?
There are a lot of different thoughts there and approaches there.
And then my youngest brother, Sam, we talked about fatherhood because, you know, if you've been following us for a little while, you know, he has a little baby, a baby girl on the way, which is really exciting.
But like, like most fathers, like I was, he's nervous.
He's worried that he's not ready.
that he's not the man he needs to be yet.
And so we talk a little bit about fatherhood and preparing for fatherhood.
And it was a good discussion.
So welcome.
Hope you enjoy it.
Let's jump in.
How are you guys doing?
Good to see you.
Let's just start this thing.
Let's kick it right off.
Nothing to report.
Everything's pretty good.
Good.
Just eating my popcorn, watching the decay of our Republic.
That's, you know, yeah, is there any continues to decline?
Lost freedom that we're going to talk about today.
You worked on that jingle yet, Sam, or lost freedom.
How was the Republic crumbling today?
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, so tonight I wanted to do something a little different.
And, you know, it's probably a terrible idea, but hey, it's different.
So let's just try it, right?
So what we're doing tonight is the three of us are each going to bring one thing that we're going to talk about.
And we haven't told the other two what it is.
So we're going to each take our turn.
We're going to talk about this.
and then we just respond to it.
The other two have done no preparation for what the third has chosen as the subject, and we're going to go around the table.
What you're going to get to see is our incredible ability to think on our feet and draw from our vast well of knowledge.
Because we all know that's what everyone has really been needing and craving.
unplanned wisdom impromptu ramblings.
This is what the people want.
We have to give them what they want.
This is our way of sounding purposeful and our complete unpreparedness.
We should make a tally of how many ums in us, each one of us says.
Just so everyone knows, Aaron is the only person that either the morning of or the night before is like, hey guys, by the way, what are we talking about tomorrow?
Like every week.
and then Joel doesn't respond for like six hours, and then he's like, oh, let's think about this.
And then Sam's like, no, I was thinking about this, and it's always something really stupid.
Yeah, usually.
And then Joel completely ignores.
And then we don't pick what Sam chooses.
It signals us rolling his eyes through the whole podcast.
And then you guys ignore, you don't even say anything about my suggestion.
It just kind of goes on to the next thing.
Yeah, we just ignore it.
Like, how about this?
Yeah.
Well, that note, Sam, why don't you go first?
I'm not going to shine.
I haven't even decided.
Don't say that.
I did that out.
I was about to ask.
All right.
Go last.
Well, okay.
Well, we're going to, we're going to give you some time.
So I have an idea, but I'm trying to think on whether we've talked about it before and I think we have.
So I'm trying to find something.
All right.
So, okay, before we do all that, let's go around.
I want to hear how you guys are doing.
Give me an update from your week.
Also, don't forget proper mic discipline.
I don't want to hear your boogers whistling in your nasal cavity.
There's a lot up there.
Aaron, I edit the podcast and I have flashbacks to when you and I shared a room.
I listen to the podcast and every time I'm like, man, I breathe in my nose too much.
Dude, shut up.
I should give you an unedited copy sometime and hear how you really sound because what you hear is after 50 layers of heavy, heavy editing and sound treatment,
She told me this.
Man, I'm going to be all self-conscious now.
I'm not going to breathe.
I'm going to hold my breath the whole time.
Yeah, and then it's going to be like your turn to talk and you're going to be like completely out of breath.
You should have the mic up like you should have the mic.
Leave me alone, guys.
Instead of like you have it.
You have it right here.
And so your nose goes right.
It should be pointing right up in my nose.
It shouldn't be in the pathway of your nose.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
How's that?
It's better.
Is it good?
Better.
I think that'll work.
Yeah.
So, okay.
Aaron, how you been, man?
How was the week?
Good.
Pretty, I said this last week.
I feel like I'm a broken record here, but I pretty uneventful.
It's been really hot here.
Oh, miserable.
At least for Michigan.
Very thick in the air.
So, um, taking a lot of trips to the splash pad.
Got a lot of splash pads in the area here.
So taking the kids there to try to stay cool.
So we did that and just been working.
And chillin' with the fam, that's about it.
Sounds great.
He's such a good family man.
Try.
All right, soon to be family man, Mr. Sam, how you been?
Yo, pretty good, also pretty uneventful.
It was kind of sad.
I really, I love July 4th.
It's just like one of my favorite holidays ever, and we didn't do anything this past weekend, so that was a bummer, because no one was really doing anything that we knew.
And all the parks were closed down.
So we couldn't, yeah, no one was willing to celebrate our day of rebellion by rebelling because we've lost our sense of, you know, but I heard LA lit up this video.
That was pretty inspiring.
Same thing happened down in Colorado Springs and here too.
I mean, there were a lot of fireworks here, but yeah, everyone is just, I think everyone is just like, no, like we're shooting off fireworks.
It's awesome.
It's been really cool to see.
our neighborhood here in Michigan.
It's very close quarters, a bunch of little like identical houses, all in rows.
And fireworks are just insane up here.
And we had about 10 over 10 fireworks shows just within a block of our house.
That's awesome.
So we just looked at our bedroom window and there was this fireworks all over the place.
So that was pretty cool.
No official fireworks shows, but you know, millions of little
private fireworks shows all over the place.
That's awesome.
Yeah, our Fourth of July was every year on the Fourth of July, I have kind of like this little moment of bliss and like very high awareness.
And what it entails is I'm sitting in a chair on a patio with a drink and or a cigar.
And I'm watching my little children running through the sprinkler.
in the backyard, you know, with the in-laws or with the extended family.
And that moment every year is like the best moment of my life.
It's just like I'm always, I always take this, take like a couple seconds to sit there, take it all in, realize that I only have, you know, a few years left to be able to do that.
And remember that that moment was paid for by the blood of thousands of young men who will never get to
have their own families and, you know, something that, you know, the greatest, richest aristocrats and emperors of ancient times, you know, could never have even amounted to that level of bliss, in my opinion.
So it was awesome.
It was a great, great Fourth of July.
Awesome.
Yep.
And then today, we went to, I gotta tell you guys this, so,
It was a nice day.
We had to get the kids outside.
They've been cooped up because it's been so hot.
We've been kind of just like, you know, sheltered in place in the house.
We decided it was time to end that.
It took them to Ann Arbor to an Arboretum to walk around.
And I hadn't been to Ann Arbor in several years, maybe even before 2016.
So like, I haven't been to Ann Arbor in the years after Trump's election.
And
I feel like there's this dark cloud of misery and anger just over the entire city.
I don't know if that's just my imagination, but everyone's just cranky and mad.
I mean, it's probably COVID and stuff like that.
It's because that's where University of Michigan is.
Everyone is rude.
Yeah, Michigan, their team loses every year.
No one was nice.
Everyone is dressed like a really weird freaking hipster.
There's a rainbow flag and a BLM poster in every single yard and every single house.
It's like a zombie land.
Everyone thinks the same.
Everyone looks the same.
No one is very nice at all.
I just felt like I was in this weird heart of Mordor type place.
But anyway, that's called our university's goal.
That's just my bias and my prejudice, I think.
It's like me painting what I'm seeing with my own bias.
I understand that, but it just felt that way when I was there.
And so we were walking through this arboretum.
It was a really beautiful day, really beautiful area.
And we walk up this hill and we come upon this beautiful open clearing.
And across this clearing, there are these girls, probably college students,
sitting on this blanket in the clearing.
Hudson gets to the top of the hill and he sees the girls across the clearing.
I've been reading the Chronicles of Narnia to my boys for the last two weeks, which I've been really excited about because I had tried reading it to them initially when they were four or five and they just didn't quite get it, but now they're super into it.
like they beg me to read one more chapter one more chapter and I'm that thrills me to no end that they're into the story so we're about two thirds of the way through line the witch in the wardrobe now and um so we get to the top of the hill or Hudson sees the the two girls um on the you know on the blanket across the way and he goes look it's two daughters of Eve he's like hi daughters of Eve
and they just look up like what?
We're like, oh my gosh.
Kelsey's like, I'm going to crawl in the hole.
My daughter's in the eave.
You guys were in a garden and they were probably thinking like, yeah, this is like Narnia.
Oh, there's two girls.
Oh, yeah, daughter's in the eave.
That is pretty much like Narnia.
That's just a little connection there.
Yeah, so that was a nice, that was a nice bright spot as we, uh, as we spend our afternoon in the, in the heart of, uh, of liberal darkness up in Aaron Arbor.
So very good.
Yup.
Um, so here's what we're going to do.
Um, we each, uh, picked one, one little, uh, subject that we will discuss.
We'll go around, give each other, you know, I don't know, 15, 20 minutes each.
And we'll, we'll discuss it unpreparedly because we just, we're so wise and knowledgeable already.
We're, we're just ready to pull up facts and logic out of our pocket whenever we need it.
So yeah, who wants to go first?
I don't want to go first.
I think Aaron should go first because I know he came up with such usual.
Well, I know, but Aaron, Aaron is, Aaron is the one who always prepares the best for these things.
Yeah.
Well, I kind of took the easy way out this, this time.
And I came up with a question.
So I just have to ask the question and then sit back and let you guys answer it.
Nice.
Okay.
Yeah.
No, I have some, some thoughts, but, uh, but not in depth.
So hopefully we'll fill this out.
I actually, so maybe two questions and feel free to pick whichever one you want to hit first in light of all of this craziness going on right now.
Is there craziness going on?
There's a little craziness going on.
Just as we kind of navigate how to, how to function in all this as a, as a Christian.
How do you, so here's the first question.
How do you share the gospel with someone who is convinced that your whiteness and your Christianity permanently label you in a presser and is hearing everything you're saying through that framework?
Okay.
So they're already coming to you from the standpoint of,
I will not listen to you.
You just tell them, well, Jesus was white, so.
Boom, boom.
Oh, mic drops.
Destroy.
Watch the snow things melt.
All right.
So that's one question.
Okay.
Second question regards to like Christians with other Christians.
How can Christians disagree on?
Where's the line of legitimate disagreement?
Um, on, on how to approach this.
Right.
Um, and you know, pick a choose whichever, you know, where that line you think may be police reform, uh, race, uh, all that stuff.
Where is it?
Where do we draw the line as Christians and say like, okay, you're now in the realm of like, um, you're in dangerous territory or it's, we can still, you know, disagree cordially.
Interesting.
Still be buddies.
So those are the two questions.
Pick whichever one.
Dang, man.
Those are loaded.
We could spend the whole time on those, I think.
So let's tackle the first one first then, huh?
Trying to share the gospel?
Yeah, like share the gospel and have a gospel influence on somebody that thinks we are a white oppressor.
Yeah.
So we're talking about someone who has been totally brought up in this.
They see the whole world through the lens of critical theory, 16, 19 project.
Your whiteness is inseparable from oppression and so on and so forth.
Yeah.
So they're seeing you through a lens and it's creating a barrier before you even open your mouth.
How would you go about maybe getting to the point where you can
You know, share the gospel with them.
Well, um, I think with someone who is who's that far gone and that that convinced, um, you're not, you're not going to get far with anybody without a friendship and without trust.
Um, you can, uh, there is actually somebody on, on Facebook who I don't know very well, who we kind of had this long discussion about this and they see, they're very much in that, like seeing the world like that.
And, uh, we've agreed to,
Exchange videos like send each other videos on Facebook that like we would like the other person to see So there's you know you could do a little bit of that But I don't I think I'm kind of skeptical as to how useful that is to actually changing someone's heart and someone's mind But I think the the heavy lifting really has to be done person to person through friendships and relationships and then once you have that That rapport and that trust with that person.
I think the way you start to maybe go about
changing their mind if you want to say it that way, it has to be by helping them come to the conclusions themselves.
And by that, not attacking them head on, but just asking them questions.
I find that people who have this worldview,
You just start asking them questions and forcing them to think about what they believe for more than three seconds, you know, three seconds beyond the mantras and the sayings and the catechism that they memorize.
It starts to fall apart pretty quickly.
And so, you know, you have to do this gently.
But just asking questions, you know, and asking for clarification and understanding and
you know, not necessarily having to change their mind in one sitting, but I think, I think questions are very useful.
And there's a, there's a well-known apologist, you probably are familiar with Greg Cocle, who wrote a book called Tactics, and he calls us the, he actually has it as one of his tactics.
He calls it the Colombo tactic, where you just ask questions, you know, you believe that?
Why do you believe that?
You know, and just, you know, kind of go why, why, why, why, and, and a few whys in, it all breaks down, you know?
Um, so that's, that's one thing you can do, but it's, it's, man, that's you're talking about, I think in, in our culture where we were used to this feeling of massive influence because we have hundreds of followers or thousands of followers and we feel like we can, you know, we can get more of the message out there if we tweet it or, or share it on social media.
Um, doing the legwork of relationship one on one with one person.
um, over a long period of time is seems so daunting and seems like such a lot of work.
You know, one, one additional barrier in this that could show up in this situation is even building a relationship might be difficult without you ascending to their worldview.
Right.
Like I could see it very easily be something where it's like,
I cannot be your friend.
I'm not going to spend time with a white supremacist.
If you don't assent to your own whiteness and how you're complicit in all this, then I'm going to cancel you for my life, so to speak.
That's the poison of this movement, is that it even inhibits the ability to form trusting relationships so that you can share the gospel.
I, first of all, I think your second, the second question you brought up is way more difficult to answer than your first.
I think it's gonna be the same as talking to anyone else about the gospel because they're so outside of what we believe.
There's a million reasons when you're talking to somebody who doesn't believe in Jesus, why they shouldn't be friends with you or why a relationship would be difficult.
And I think honestly, a lot of this breaks down
outside of media intermediaries.
Yes.
You get face to face and people.
When you get face to face with somebody who believes this, it is impossible for them not to see you as another human.
And I think when you're face to face with somebody, it's a very, I think it's something on the surface that breaks down really quickly.
It's a good way.
And I think you can come to agreement on things you have in common a lot faster than you can over Twitter or Facebook.
and TikTok and Instagram, I think honestly part of the issue with this is that it's so easy to shout into the wind and dehumanize other people and classify them by race, by privilege, by what they believe.
And then when you're actually sitting down with somebody, having a meal, having a drink, all that kind of breaks down and goes away.
That's a really good point, Sam.
I've noticed that
in my own life, even when you spend a lot of time on social media and you see all of the, you know, the going back and forth, you can walk out, you know, you can just go to the store or whatever.
And you, you almost assume that the real world is going to be everything that you've been hearing and just the animosity and the anger and the hatred and stuff.
And then like, you see people treat each other like courteously and like, you know, like, yep, you realize, oh, people are, there's, there's still humans out there, right?
Yeah.
So I think that's a very good point that you can
Once you get face to face, a lot of that facade, that armor that people have built up melts away, not in every case.
I'm sure there's some real die hard, but that's a really good point.
I like that.
Are you experiencing that?
I mean, are you, are you, you have certain people in mind?
No, this is actually, this is a question, we've been talking about it with, with our college and career group.
Um, how to, how to just navigate this.
Um,
And that's one question that come up.
It's like, how do we, how do we witness when someone looks at you and says, Christian idea is the problem.
I like the same.
I like your point to of of asking questions and listening.
And I think one reason why that's particularly going to be effective in this case is because shutting up and listening is like one of the creeds.
that, you know, like, like, don't don't speak.
You know, if you get really angry and riled, that's just, you're hiding your guilt.
Yeah.
You know, you're hiding your own embarrassment.
So that's why you get riled.
So you just need to be quiet and listen.
White, white fragility.
Right.
And I think the tendency for us, when we hear that, we're like, no, I'm going to get riled just to, you know, because you told me I can't, right.
But even before all of this, we as Christians, that's, that's how we're called to act.
to act with gentleness and respect.
And just because of this new movement, it doesn't change that reality.
Quick to hear slow to speak.
Exactly.
It says right in the Bible, you know?
Yeah, like, it's like, you know what, I just want to, I want to fully and truly understand your belief.
Before I tear it to pieces.
All right, oh, it was a big back flip.
It's the old bait and switch, you know?
That's right.
Yeah.
Well, I think in an advantage too is,
as opposed to like, you know, just straight up atheism where there's no morality.
There's this pity, listen, difference.
These people have some sense of like there needs to be justice.
Yes.
It needs to be equity.
And there's a lot of like good things that are twisted and
misplaced.
And that's what postmodernism and critical race theory came from, was it was a reaction to the enlightenment and the modernist thinking that led to things like eugenics and scientific racism.
So they're trying to assign value to a human being, except without God.
So it's massive confusion and a lot of error there.
But in a lot of ways, there's a heart behind it that
at its core is something good.
It's a heart that at least realizes there's something horribly wrong.
There's something horribly wrong.
That's a great starting point with those folks is that they look at the world and they see everything that's wrong.
They're super sensitive about everything that's wrong.
What a great way to lead into the realization that we're full of sin and that everything is wrong.
Yeah, a lot of these folks are already there.
So it's a, you know, it's a great starting point.
One, uh, one verse that came to mind with this is, uh, in first Peter two, 12, uh, Peter says, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable so that when they speak against you as evil doers, right?
So these are, he's telling these Christians, hey, the people around you are going to look at your works and call you eat.
evil, they're going to call you the oppressor or call you the racist, the villain, the racist, right?
They're going to speak against you as evil doers, but keep your conduct among them honorable, that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation.
And that's just why it's so important for our, our testimony to stay consistent with our message, you know, cause.
And regarding your, um, regarding your kind of second point,
That was like drawing the line.
Where do you draw the line with other believers?
Yeah, that's tough.
You're experiencing some of that now, aren't you, Sam?
Yeah.
And in my experience, you don't get that way by accident.
You either have the presence of the gospel in your life and in the community or the absence of the gospel in your life in the community.
There's a difference between full on heresy, throwing away scripture,
Um, you know, there's a lot of churches that are doing that embracing, um, things that the world embrace wholeheartedly and immaturity as a, as a fellow believer, um, or having a lack of gospel influence.
So I think that one's tough because I don't know.
It depends on whether they're being influenced by their church and their surroundings or they, they truly believe, for instance, that, Hey, the word of God is no longer
I don't consider it an authority anymore, which has been a very popular movement.
It always has been, you know, it's always been around, but it's been in evangelical circles.
It's been a popular movement.
It's been the constant threat scary to the church.
Yeah.
So I don't know.
I think that's a tough one to answer.
I think it's just, is it, are they denying scripture or are they just immature?
and they need to be assembled.
I think a lot of the same principles that we talked about, talking with an unbeliever might apply here too, that you're going to have a lot of Christians that just glom on to whatever the thing is, you know, like, oh yeah, this is obviously this is what we should be doing in this situation because it's what the culture and the media and all my friends are telling, especially Christians, you know, on a college campus, secular college campus that are getting fed this all the time.
And a lot of situations they haven't thought through all the way back to, oh my goodness, this view actually undermines the sufficiency of scripture.
Or this actually compromises the gospel.
I didn't realize that before, right?
So it's a matter of being able to guide them to that without hurting a relationship or labeling wrong motives to their view.
What about fellowship between churches or church organizations?
There's kind of this big
uh, schism, if you will, happening in the Southern Baptist church over critical race theory.
You know, you kind of have the woke churches and the non woke churches fighting right now.
You know, like, do you think this is something to break fellowship, break off fellowship over, um, or not?
It's really funny how in a lot of ways you're seeing the
the fundamentalist, modernist controversy of the 1920s happening in a different way.
History just repeats itself over and over and over again.
And you're almost starting to see a new fundamentalism form.
And often divided along that social involvement.
And what is the mission of the church is a big one.
And I'd say, I mean, my view would be just as back at the 1920s, the original, you know, fundamentalist, modernist controversy.
Fundamentalists were right to stand on where they stood.
Obviously, there were over time things.
got kind of lost.
Yeah, the problem with fundamentalists is that they, you know, they just, that's, yeah, they, they, they took that stand where they needed to back in the 50s and then they just stayed in that combative stance.
It became the, it became the label.
Yeah.
What they're known for.
And so that, you know, they, that's what they, they focused on, but, um, so I, I'd say for today, if, if a, if a church views their mission, their great commission as something other than scripture,
then you really can't partner with them, I don't think.
Right.
Yeah, I'd agree.
Yeah, I'd agree too.
It's sad.
I mean, there's a lot of churches that seem to potentially maybe be going that route.
Right.
Yeah.
And a lot of great pastors and evangelical leaders who I've admired over the years going that route, which is strange.
So what about like you're sitting across from a fellow Christian?
and they say we should defund, we should abolish the police.
Is that an issue?
Then you should be like, should I move together and see what life is actually like when there's no law?
I'd say why do you hate black lives and want them to die, you idiot?
I'm now gonna write a satire piece and make fun of you tomorrow.
So like my question is, would that be a scenario where it's like,
You have a different flaw.
You have a different policy view of what might work.
I fundamentally disagree with you on the effectiveness of that.
I wouldn't separate from them.
No, no, I don't think it definitely should not separate.
But how invested should we be in trying to correct that person?
You don't think the idea of getting rid of the police is a biblical issue?
You don't think the Bible has anything to say about that?
I think if you trace the Bible talk about our authorities, you know, not bearing the sword in vain.
I think if you trace it far back enough, it finds its root in how do you view man?
If man's ultimate problem is sin, then you need something in place to keep sin at bay.
Yeah.
If man's ultimate problem is mental health or circumstances,
or poverty, then, you know, police would seem less necessary.
And I think that's part of the problem that you're seeing is you start from that framework of man isn't sinful.
And so why do we need all of these armed police officers here?
Good thing like what, 75, 80% of poll responders don't agree with defunding the police.
So that's always good to... That's still a horrible number.
Just the thought that there are 20% of people
who actually want to defund and get rid of the police.
I mean, the colossal ignorance.
It doesn't actually mean that.
We just use that to shock you.
Reform it.
Oh my gosh.
It's just a better chant.
That's the tough thing.
That's the thing that I struggle with, because politics is intruded into our lives to such an extent where it's almost impossible to separate it from our Christianity.
I mean, if I'm talking to someone who,
is pro-choice and they're doing it from a standpoint of, I believe this is reproductive justice and this is the most loving thing for the mothers and this is what God wants us to do, this is the gospel.
I am going to forcefully and clearly correct and shoot that down.
I think that the idea of defunding the police is the same because it would result in the same amount of
horrific bloodshed, mass death and injustice.
If we were to get rid of the police, you know, I don't care what your motives are for doing that.
I, as a Christian, cannot stand by whatever your motives are and allow people's lives to be destroyed because of your good, lofty motives.
So you would say in that case, that's not a agree to disagree situation with the Christian.
Absolutely not.
Would that be, I'm willing to risk our relationship to... Never.
No, I correct you on this.
I don't think any of this should be a risk of our relationship.
I mean, our love for that other person and our relationship with that other person is... None of this should sever that.
I don't care if the person is extremely pro-choice or doing all kinds of horrible things I disagree with.
I don't see how that is a call to sever a relationship with anybody.
That seems kind of antithetical to what a Christian is called to do as well, right?
But should a preacher talk about defunding the police or why it's wrong over the pulpit?
I think we're approaching that point.
I think we're approaching the point where it may have to be
the case.
They need to feed wisdom to their congregations so that the people in church can discern for themselves.
Know how to think.
It is no preacher's job to tell anybody how to think on any issue.
Besides, here's the word of God.
Here's how God says we should think.
Here's how God says we should love our fellow man.
Here's why believers
You know, many believers think that we shouldn't.
And it's based in fundamental principles of our understanding of mankind and sin.
Here's why some believers think we should.
And, you know, it may be misguided in this certain way, it may be found, you know, whatever the case, they need to be equipping their congregations with wisdom.
And they're not doing that.
They're just cotailing to whatever cultural pressure comes their way and put their little tails between their legs and they
say ancillary like little isms of like, oh, by the way, everyone, I just want to let you know that like this church stands with people across the world.
Now let's get into our song for the day.
And it's just like, that's like all they do.
And I'm like, I don't want that.
So it's so stupid.
And I'm just like, I'm tired of people like just freaking like put your head on the neck on the line and just preach the gospel and just
Here I stand, I can do no other.
Absolutely.
Have some freakin' conviction because no one has any, it's so stupid.
That's gonna be my next sermon series, Sam.
Have some freakin' conviction.
Yeah, believe what you believe.
Make sure and include the word freakin' in that.
That's not that hard.
Yeah, freakin' freakin'.
You gotta have the word freakin'.
I agree, that's good, guys.
It's tough, I mean, it really,
It's becoming harder and harder for a Christian not to talk about this stuff.
The next really scary, sticky question that we probably should not get into right now is, at what point can we say that a Christian cannot be a Democrat?
I'm going to hold my tongue on that because we've always said, you know, it's like, like, keep politics and, and, you know, religious beliefs separate.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Can it create?
Can a Christian be a Nazi?
Right.
You know, can a Christian be a Bolshevik?
Can a Christian be a full fledged Trump supporter?
All Trump supporters are Christians.
That's the whole thing.
I thought that was the whole deal.
That's, yeah.
I thought that was what it was.
He's God's chosen man.
What are you talking about?
Sorry.
Yeah.
No, I don't think a Christian should identify as a full fledged Trump supporter.
Like I'm talking about like a rabid fan.
Like, you know, you know, like, I don't think I don't think Christians to treat any man.
Yeah, especially.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
No matter who he is.
Right.
And it is like it is disconcerting just to see the level of rabbit-ness and borderline worship of Trump by some very conservative people.
And it's a little weird to see.
A little weird.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I'll finish my, I feel like I went, I got a little too long there.
So my apologies.
Awesome.
Well Joel, I think we should do yours next because mine is so different.
I feel like it would just whiplash our conversation back.
Mine is somewhat related, so yours could be a pallet cleanser at the end.
Mine will be like an ending will end on this and we'll give some thoughts.
Okay, cool.
All right.
So mine is about education.
That's been on my mind lately.
I had kind of this epiphany when my youngest daughter was born.
I was in the hospital.
This was when Charlottesville happened.
And I remember
I was, we lucked out, we got a big room with two beds, Kelsey's in the bed next to me with Edie.
I am in the empty bed and I'm seeing all this Charlottesville stuff unfold as I'm looking through my phone.
And you remember the white nationalists coming out with the tiki torches, those young Nazi kids.
And I remember looking at these boys, these boys, little young men.
And kind of realizing that, you know, these aren't inbred like Hicks from the Hills.
These aren't like old school, you know, Confederate flag flying, you know, racist from the mountains.
I mean, these are young, probably educated in a public school.
They grew up watching SpongeBob, you know, they're my little brother, Sam's age.
And they are, their faces are twisted in rage.
They're carrying tiki torches.
and they have adopted this white, identitarian idea.
And it made me think, oh my gosh, these guys are the product of our public education system.
These kids weren't homeschooled.
These kids didn't go to Christian school.
And thinking about how, well, okay, that makes sense.
You raise, you teach these kids,
identity politics their entire life it you know is it any surprise when there's a small amount of white guys that adopt identity politics for white people i mean everyone else gets to have identity politics why why should white people you know and so um... you have what they're doing with this with the curriculum now you know you have the riots where i'm i'm seeing people interview these young writers these certificates and they they know nothing about nothing it's it's just incredible colossal ignorance
So many of you're seeing these statues sprayed with 1619.
So you have this new narrative from the 1619 Project, which paints this picture, the story of America being founded in racism, of racism, for racism, for slavery, forever tainted.
I'm just thinking about education, how it's, maybe it's too late.
So maybe that's kind of my first question, is it too late?
I feel like it's one of the most important and one of the most neglected issues we're facing right now.
I mean, we're turning millions and millions of our own children and part of it's the breakdown of the family.
Parents aren't watching out for their kids and checking up on what they're being taught every day.
We're turning millions of kids through these, you know, I know I'm going to sound like a right-wing nut here.
They're indoctrination centers.
You know, they've made it very clear that they're
intention is to bring that 1619 narrative into their entire curriculum of teaching history and sociology and anthropology.
How do we stop it?
How do we save these kids?
I think that's what really gets me because I feel so helpless watching innocent children, innocent human beings made in the image of God being put into these systems that are going to twist them into these bitter
resentful, angry, ignorant tools of some revolutionary force out there.
And it keeps me up.
It really bugs me.
And I don't know if homeschooling and private school is, it's gonna help our own kids, but it's not gonna solve the problem.
So I just wonder, what can be done?
What should be done about that?
I think part of the reason
is that cultural conservatives or Christians both have ignored the culture for so long.
We had it so easy for so long.
We had the luxury of dying on the stupidest hills like your skirt needs to come to your knee and all these other stupid, ridiculous, ancillary
pieces of stupid legalism.
Tell us how you really feel.
So we died on all these hills for no reason whatsoever besides the fact that we need to have some sense of morality.
And in doing so, we ignored our communities and we ignored, hey,
Maybe we can reach more kids with the gospel and get more kids out of this public school down the street that's teaching them, you know, nihilism and philosophies that will leave them addicted to drugs and with emptiness.
Maybe we can reach more kids if we, um, you know, don't force our students to do this or that or go to church on Sunday.
And I don't know.
I think that's, that's part of why we find ourselves in this issue is Christians have hidden themselves away withdrawn from the fight or from the, from just being a part of the culture.
Maybe?
I mean, I can't say that for every Christian school.
I can't say that for every, you know, group of kids, parent, church, community, et cetera.
But yeah, I don't know.
The battle is being lost somewhere.
And I think, I don't know where should we, you know, how much can we control?
I mean, we can control how we raise our own kids.
And I'm, I'm putting, I'm homeschooling my kids and putting, you know, Claire in private school this fall.
And so like part of me feels like, you know, am I being selfish?
We talk about how like maybe this, maybe this has happened because we've withdrawn from the conversation withdrawn from the fight withdrawn from the culture, but
when it comes to my kids, like I don't want them to be experiments or little missionaries for my crusade.
Like I need to protect them and raise them in safety and to learn right and wrong and truth and virtue.
And so it's a difficult question to answer because I do know people, I know good Christian families who very intentionally and with eyes wide open, send their kids to public school because
They will say, they say, you know, how is the culture going to change if we withdraw from it?
And I'm like, man, you're braver than I am.
I mean, good for you, good on you.
But I just can't follow them there.
I think the number one priority is how you're raising your own kids.
And I don't think we should ever feel guilty of doing what we think is best for them.
I think it's a Sam's point too that
churches in these Christians, I think, can just do a better job of being more aware of what is happening in our public schools so that we can equip them how to think biblically, too, right?
Like, you know, if any given church, you got a youth group with a bunch of kids that are in public school.
Does that youth pastor, whoever's in charge, is he aware of the stuff that they're being fed?
I mean, they're in school five days out of the week.
They come to his little group once maybe twice out of the week for an hour at a time.
And we just assume that, you know, if we just kind of do our thing, then they'll just kind of jump right on and buy it all realize that our voice is a fraction of what they're hearing overall.
And so just being more aware of like, this is what they're teaching and what they're learning.
And when they come to your little classroom,
on a Sunday morning or Wednesday night or whatever, are you ready to say, hey, this is how the Bible just shatters all of these worldviews and systems that man has created and look how coherent and beautiful it is and elevate that so that they see the emptiness of everything else.
I feel like that's probably where we've come short.
It's getting easier to do to show the holidays.
That's true.
Yeah, that's a very good point.
It's becoming easier to show the holiness of everything else.
How does a youth pastor do that?
I mean, does he hang out on TikTok the rest of the week and find out what these kids are talking about?
Like, what do you do?
You know, like, I've, I've, one thing I've thought about is like, should we become teachers?
Should we be volunteering in these public schools to, you know, I don't know, teach part time or start little Bible studies?
I don't know.
There's still liberties to do that.
You know, there's like after school, you know, things where like you can churches can have Bible studies for at least the believers that go to school.
And as long as we have that liberty, I think Christians should take advantage of that.
Um, I think it's unfair to say that
every pastor needs to be a professional exegete of the culture at every time because that's almost impossible.
His main priority is to exegete masterfully the word of God.
But in addition to that, as he is systematically and carefully explaining what God's word says, is he at least generally aware of the objections or the questions that are arising in his
in the years of the kids that are hearing him.
And I think you get to know what those objections and questions are if you're like actually forming relationships with them and talking with them and forming those friendships.
I think it's a lot harder if you don't have the parents on board.
Yes.
In my experience with you.
You can't do your parents job.
If a kid doesn't have parents that are involved in discipling them, then there's nothing you can do 45 minutes a week to
to, you know, unless you're meeting with them outside doing extra Bible studies or whatever, the parents have got to be involved too.
Yeah.
And there's this weird, I don't know, I don't think youth pastors should be young.
I don't know why there's this rule that youth pastors need to be young.
I think there should be, there should be like a minimum age requirement of like 40 to be a youth pastor.
That's a good idea.
Because, because like as a youth pastor, you need to disciple these kids' parents and you need to be
making sure you're able to disciple the parents to disciple their kids.
And yeah, you need to know how to parent yourself.
And when you're 21, 22, 23 years old, it's like you can't really disciple these other, you know what I mean?
Like, hey, who should we put in charge of all of these like super immature kids?
Another immature kid.
Imature dude we can find.
Who knows how to play fun games, right?
Because they're glorified entertainers that share a first and their entertainment.
The tendency among families and parents to delegate
the raising of their children to either the school or among Christians is to delegate it to the church to the church.
You know, you raise my kids for me.
And the church is there to help.
It's a resource.
It's to guide in the word of God, but you can't take the place of a parent for a child.
Well, that's some good advice.
You know, I do, I do think it's good to focus on the, the little small world that I can control at least.
Um, I'm still thinking about what, you know, how can I help, uh, you know, the local public school?
I don't know.
Um, just barge into the classroom.
He's preaching lies.
Well, you know, I, I do, you know, as a, as a libertarian dictator of America, um, uh, tyrant Joel Berry will, um, he will,
He will ban teachers unions forever.
Universal school choice.
I would divorce the funding of schools from zip codes.
So every child would have the exact same amount of funding attached to the child no matter where they live.
And then I would outlaw divorce except in cases of abuse.
There you go.
If you have kids with someone, you're required to marry them.
or I will execute you.
Joel's libertarian dictatorship.
Come live here.
Joel further destroys his any hopes of public office someday.
Good.
I'm going to keep digging that hole.
My goal is to permanently disqualify myself.
I would have said, you know, a great way to do that would be to, you know, run for local office, but not on Joel's table.
And we're complicit.
We're sitting here laughing at it.
So we're close to we can't.
Yep.
Someone's going to find this someday.
So I'm going to find the transcripts.
Oh, yeah.
Yep.
Yeah.
Let's you want to talk about cancel cancel culture a little bit.
This is a
I work for a right-wing conservative satire site.
Aaron works for a church.
Sam's really the only person with something to lose here, if our opinions were to hit me open.
If Joel's recording somehow managed to make their way into the leaders of my organization.
You haven't said anything objectionable.
Like the dude at Boeing, for the 33-year-old article about why a woman shouldn't be in combat, and he had to resign, I saw that.
33 years.
So stupid.
Do you think people will ever catch up to the insanity of it?
Will there ever reach a point where people have this aha moment and this light bulb?
We're like, oh my goodness.
This is really big companies.
Really dumb balls.
That is when I think people will start to think this is insane because right now these massive corporations are so bureaucratic and scarce.
Yeah, and they have targets on their back from hundreds of organizations who are ready to sue them at the drop of a half or starting to be anti-discrimination capitalism laws.
Well, see, I don't think it's I don't think it's filled by capitalism.
I think it is this massive bureaucracy and this massive, you know, there's so many organizations out there who's sole purpose is to sue companies for
things like anti discrimination.
Well, and how are they getting funded?
They're getting funded by the very organizations to say cuts and their tax breaks and they're not, you know, all this stuff.
It's all woven together.
And I think that's why they're so scared to death.
Yeah.
It's nuts, man.
That's another thing I'll ban.
If you cancel somebody, I execute you.
The ultimate cancel.
It will cancel your life.
You cancel someone?
I will cancel your heart beat.
Oh, man.
I'm just kidding everybody.
I'm just kidding.
Listen, I'm always so reasonable and gentle in all the other seven days, all the other six days of the week.
This is my chance to just be a complete jerk.
Sam, we need your power cleanser, bud.
What do we got?
Power cleansers.
So I've been thinking a lot about just leadership, you know, since I'm going to have a family here.
There's gonna be three of us pretty soon.
Leadership in the home.
And I know that character is a result of discipline and discipline as a result of habits.
And habits is like the hardest part.
Well, in a way, that's not entirely 100% true.
Of course, character goes back to who you are in your heart and being a Christian or whatever.
I would love to hear from you guys.
what you do every morning, how you get yourself ready for the day, how important is physical exercise, unless... Oh no.
Yeah.
Our eyes would be really wide.
I've really been trying to master this for a while, this getting up.
And if I don't master it now, there's no way I'll ever be able to master it once I start having kids.
And so, but not that I won't be able to, it'll just be way more difficult.
So I'd love to hear your,
thoughts on that, how to, yeah, I just lead with prayer and discipline and, you know, pursuing what's important to you.
And I feel like that comes down to, hey, what are you spending your time?
And how are you making extra time to pursue what's important to you and what's important to your family?
You want to start, Aaron?
Well, in a way, having kids helped me form some of those habits.
because forming those habits became more of a necessity because I had less discretionary time.
I think when you have more discretionary time, like when it's just you and your wife, you have a job, you have responsibilities and stuff, but for the most part, it's like, hey, you know, what do you want to do this evening?
Or, you know, it's, you just have a little bit more freedom.
And I think that can very easily breed lack of discipline, right?
For me, having kids is what actually kind of got me into like a morning routine.
You're looking at your daily schedule and you're like, okay, goodness, most of my day is full now.
I know what I need to do.
Like I need the time and the word.
I need the time to get my head on straight and to think before the day starts.
And that's when having a set
wake up time started, um, and, and a morning routine and, and, and sitting down and, and trying to read my Bible and have a Bible, like a plan to read through and things like that kind of strengthened because so much more of your day is, is spoken for.
Yeah.
Um, so that's the one, that's what's one thought that came to my mind.
I don't know if Joel, you had anything to, um,
I will say that the idea of discipline in routine will look a lot different after you have kids in the sense that in a lot of ways, once you have children and the more children you have, routine becomes next to impossible, any kind of like regular rhythm.
And the lesson you have to learn, the skill that you have to build looks something more like
flexibility and, uh, and responsiveness being nimble, uh, being able to, uh, give up something that you wanted to do or had planned to do because now suddenly everything has changed and you have to drop everything you do and you have to, you know, discipline one of your kids or, um, you know, repair something that's been broken.
And so I think the biggest skill to learn there is, is just kind of like that.
unselfishness and sacrificial love because that's always hard for me.
I have my own little things that I want and want to do and the way I want to do them.
Having kind of an open hand and being willing to have those things taken out at the last minute.
I think the other thing too is in cultivating a lifestyle of discipline, at the very least as a father and a husband,
as you're leading the family spiritually, always have at least one thing that you're working on together.
And it doesn't have to be big, and it's probably gonna change all the time because it's gonna fizzle out after a month and you're gonna suck at it.
But things like, we're gonna sit down for dinner every night.
We're gonna do that this week.
Or this month, I'm gonna read a passage of scripture to you, to you kids before you go to bed.
I'm going to try to go on a walk with each one of my kids by themselves at least once a week.
Just little things like that.
And it's going to change.
The schedule is going to get blown up.
It's not always going to work and you're not always going to be consistent all the way through.
But having the overall vision in mind that I am the spiritual leader of my home, my kids' growth and being trained up in the way they should go is my responsibility and whatever that looks like this week.
I'm going to work on something, a little thing here or there to continually press towards that goal.
But resign yourself to the fact that it's going to be messy and inconsistent all the time.
I guess that's, I think it's helpful for me to hear because I've experienced that.
And I think my tendency is to think like, okay, this week,
we are starting a new family tradition that's going to continue for the rest of time.
They will talk about it when they're old age.
You'll never miss a day, you know?
And this will be a new thing.
And yeah, I'm being a spiritual leader and all that stuff.
And then you do it for three days and then you forget about it and everything changes and you're like, oh, stink, I blew it again, right?
I totally failed.
And that's happened a number of times where it's like it kind of started something
It doesn't always work or whatever.
So I think there is a danger of being devoted to routine to the point where your family actually becomes the intruder into that routine.
And that's where it's dangerous.
You get that resentment.
Yeah.
So discipline with flexibility, I think, are the big things.
Like with my morning routine, I've come to the point where I really like
My morning routine, it's like, it's an important part of my day.
But even then, it's a very normal occasion for my beloved daughter to wake up five minutes after I do, income sobbing out of her room, just completely incoherent and inconsolable and just irrational.
And my whole morning's blown up, right?
And it's really easy for me to be like, this is the worst and you get all irritated and angry and everything.
So discipline with flexibility is huge.
You mentioned, you mentioned exercise, Sam.
I mean, just as an aside, I found staying active has just helped with my ability to, I think it's helped with my ability to be flexible because over time it, you have more mental energy, you have more physical energy to keep up with the twists and turns of your, your daily life.
For me, that doesn't look like going to a gym.
I don't have a gym membership.
I just do it at home workouts, you know, for a half hour or whatever.
And even then, that gets interrupted.
And oftentimes I'm doing push-ups with
with Joshua crawling underneath my belly and hanging onto my neck, you know, where I'm doing, like, I'm jogging in place and I actually knee-bricki in the face, you know, and, you know, she starts crying and I have to stop and console her.
Do you ever go on runs to just go?
Oh, I hate running.
Really?
But I feel like I need to.
I can't run anymore.
I need to, I'd like to.
But again, so yeah, it's, it's routine is tough.
I think you're right, Sam, that,
Um, and it might get tougher once you become a parent.
Um, but I would say if you want to, if you want to work on one thing that would pair you most for being a parent, it would be that disciplined flexibility over, over routine.
Like I think, um,
How do you handle situations when they change last minute?
How can I use this unexpected moment to serve my overall vision?
Does that make sense?
I'm doing something that I didn't expect to be doing right now.
I don't really know what to do, but how is this going to serve my overall job as spiritual leader and responsible for my kids?
But you probably had to deal with that as like in boot camp, right?
Did they train you how to handle an unexpected situation?
Yes.
That's actually a good point because the battlefield is a very good analogy for being a parent because they train you that
You know, we're going to train you how to do things this way.
You're going to learn your maneuvers and your tactics.
You're going to learn how to fire a weapon.
You're going to have it down.
You're going to have the muscle memory.
You're going to feel so proficient and then you're going to get into battle and like, you know, that, uh, sorry, that crap goes right out the window.
Yeah.
Uh, goes right out the window, you know, uh, adrenaline takes over.
No plans ever work, uh, as they're intended to,
and you have to be able to think on your feet, be flexible, and, you know, adapt.
You have to be adaptable.
And so they would do that all the time in boot camp.
You'd be doing an exercise and suddenly, you know, someone would
come and, you know, a drill instructor would come and just like tear your tent apart and like dump all your ammo out on the ground and scream in your face, you know?
It's literally, oh my gosh, yeah, it really is.
It's like having two 300 pound massive like gorilla two year old screaming in your face.
And so, so yeah, man, get ready.
It's a whirlwind and give yourself some grace, you know,
Um, because it's going to, it's going to be tough and you're going to fail a lot.
Um, but, um, you know, that's what it's all, that's what sanctifications for.
That's why it's why we need God.
And, uh, that's, that's what he uses to, to keep us, keep us cling into him.
So, and I think it's a balance between preparation and God growing these things in you.
in like in that new life stage.
I think there's just something about entering into that new life stage as a dad that you're almost pushed in certain directions.
You're pushed into growing into certain ways that wasn't, I don't say not as not possible, but it wasn't, you weren't pushed in that direction before.
And now it kind of grows in you just based off of where you find yourself.
So it's a combination of those two, I think.
Yeah.
So over these next few months, as you prepare for, you know, for what's coming, just be in prayer, just be in prayer and relax.
You know, you don't have to be a, you don't have to be a frigging rock star right out of the gate.
Yep.
Right.
There's a, there's a, the, the Babylon Bee, I promise this is relevant.
Um, Kyle did a, um, an article
either today or yesterday, that is marriage.
This is marriage in fatherhood and being a husband.
An ultimate act of sacrificial love, man plugs in wife's phone instead of his.
That's it.
That's just like little moments of learning how to be unselfish is what is all about.
Practice that now.
Practice.
Charging your wife's phone instead of yours when when there's only one charger to be found So Sam would you say like for you?
Having a kid like for some people having a kid it would end up feeling like that Having that responsibility isn't shooting upon your routine.
You know you have your whole routine down in this kid kind of breaks that It sounds like more for you would be more like having a kid threatens
like the lack of routine or being able to kind of have that discretionary time.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not a routine guy by nature.
I don't know many people that are.
I'm not task oriented.
I'm creative oriented.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, it's I'm not Emily task oriented.
Is she kind of an organized by the numbers person?
So you guys are going to compliment each other really well.
Yeah.
It's going to be great.
And it'll probably, you'll drive each other crazy with that too, but you need each other.
Embrace her strengths and make sure and tell her to embrace your strengths too.
Make sure and remind her how much she really should just appreciate your lack of structure and discipline.
But if you do start from that framework of
I love my wife.
I want to serve her with everything in me.
I love my daughter.
I want to serve her.
And you just pray that make that your prayer.
Make that your heart.
And that's really, that's, that's what it is.
I mean, it's, you know, I want to be ready to, I know things are going to be out of my control.
It's going to be wild and we've whipped around this way in that.
But I want to,
like have the muscle to be able to handle those things.
Obviously, I'm not going to 100%, but I don't want it to take me by surprise or miss things.
Like, oh my gosh, I totally didn't even see that about our marriage or our kid, which I'll probably see that, but I wanna be ready for the fact that I am not gonna see that, if that makes sense.
Yeah, sure.
We wanna clear picture of it.
You can't anticipate everything or know what it's gonna look like, but you wanna at least start thinking about, ooh, this is a possibility.
Right.
Yeah.
There's, there's going to be issues and there's going to be kinks, but I, I don't want it.
I don't want them to be exasperated because I've sat on my butt and I haven't done things that I could do to prepare myself through prayer and reading and just strengthening my soul.
And so I don't know.
That's just kind of, I think one thing that's helped me is, is anticipating scenarios just as just almost like a case study.
Right.
Knowing your own personality and your own weaknesses and then hearing things that other parents go through or, or, you know, just common things that, that dads have to deal with and just envisioning.
Oh, wow.
I could totally see how I would respond in that knowing my weaknesses.
Man, I, I have a problem with this.
I would really struggle in this situation, knowing me.
Right.
Um, you have opportunity now to kind of just kind of play that out and to envision that.
And then say, okay, how would a biblical response be?
How would that look differently?
And then make that a matter of prayer.
And you know what goes a long way towards just helping you feel more prepared, feel more peace about it too, is just get the practical stuff out of the way, man.
Make sure that baby's room is ready.
Make sure that the house is baby proofed.
Get everything fixed.
that needs to be fixed, write out your 10-year plan for your career, write out your plan for getting out of debt, write out your plan for how soon you're gonna be able to move up in car to get a family vehicle, lay out some of that practical stuff and start working it out.
That'll set your mind at ease too.
That's good man stuff you just gotta do.
Do some nesting.
You know, make, make sure you have a plan for, um, for how you're going to be provider and, uh, and raise these kids and, and grow your family when you have two, three, four more, you know?
And, uh, all right.
And if you have no, if you're completely clueless, like, dude, I don't know how to like, you know, whether it's financially or whatever, like talk to people that are experts in it.
Right.
Like, right.
Dave Ramsey.
Get a financial advisor, you know.
Do you have a financial advisor?
Do you have like a...
I have a guy that does my taxes, but... You should get a financial advisor, man.
I know a guy, Sam.
Yeah.
I know a guy.
Cool.
He's cool.
Anyway.
You'll do great.
Is that... Is any of that helpful, Sam?
Did we like even go after... Like, did we even address what you were... What's bugging you?
No.
I mean, maybe.
A little bit.
That was good.
That was all good stuff.
You missed it, Joel.
We failed.
No, it's okay.
Yeah, I don't know.
I just want to move forward in life, and I don't feel like I'm doing that in a sufficient way.
Hey, man, listen.
That's the only thing.
That's just...
I spent eight years building a career
that fell in the toilet and now I'm working under a moving blanket in my basement.
Don't feel too much pressure, don't feel bad.
Get the frickin' bills paid, keep the lights on, buy the food.
There's plenty of ways to do that.
You don't have to be some business mogul.
There are the elements of being a father that are important, that are the most important, have nothing to do with that.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And your, your life is about to move forward in a pretty significant way in a couple of months.
Right.
And that's the great thing.
You know, you, you can look at like, Oh man, I wish I was here in my career or I wish I had these, these abilities or skills kind of mastered.
Um, but when you like see your daughter for the first time and you realize you get to like raise this kid.
It'll, it'll let a fire on.
Oh man, it'll, it'll, and it just,
I think it shifts a lot of priorities.
It's just like, my goodness, this is what better thing.
Can I invest my life in than loving this child and raising it?
Not to say those other things are unimportant, but I feel like a lot of things come in perspective when you hit until like that day of birth, at least for me.
You'll do awesome.
It'll be great.
Thanks, guys.
You go, girl.
Man.
Does anyone even know these days?
Hey, man.
I hope I do know, Sam.
I mean, we can help you.
Speaking of which, did you see that those new guidelines they released for non-gendered language?
It kind of went viral.
On Twitter?
I saw the one that the Twitter engineers or whatever changed.
That was one.
Google's removing gendered language from their coding and stuff like that.
Another organization released guidelines for how we can start talking.
We shouldn't say men or women anymore.
Instead of saying women, you say, person who can menstruate.
They don't make some awkward conversations.
What if they're in menopause or they had a hysterectomy or something like that?
I know, it's ridiculous.
At the B, we're doing a South Park style cartoon with two guys at a water cooler at work and they're having a bro conversation, but they're using all these new language guidelines.
That'll be out in a couple of weeks.
It'll be pretty funny.
I like Sam I remember so before the boys were born I remember I. I like recorded them like these daily journals like where I was speaking into the camera and I was telling them like this is how I'm praying for you today and this is what my wishes for you.
I'm so dramatic Joel.
And like and then and then they came.
And it's like, I don't know, man, like all those lofty intentions and desires and ways I thought it would be just completely out the window.
You got thrown at the deep end too, man.
Yeah, man.
Two of them with sensory processing disorder and hyperactivity.
Not that that could happen to you,
There's just so much of it that I'm just like, you know what, man?
We can give you advice, but there's no way we can truly do it for you.
There's no hope.
I mean, is there something that you're hoping to accomplish or have figured out before the baby comes?
Is that what you're
Yeah, you don't know where your life is going in terms of a career standpoint, or you don't have a vision for your life, or you don't know what you're supposed to be doing with your life, and now you have this baby, and you lack vision.
What do you think you're missing to spell it out?
Yeah, I really like freaking all of that.
Not to drag out the podcast.
At this point where I'm here because I want to help you, I don't care about the podcast anymore.
Um, I don't know.
I just, I, maybe I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know what I don't know.
Um, and I see my habits.
I see how I spend my time.
I see, I don't know.
And I'm just like, how is this person ready to have a kid?
Like obviously I'm not ready to have a kid.
So it's just kind of like, I feel like I need to kick myself into gear pretty soon here, but I'm not like, doesn't feel like I'm having a kid yet.
So I don't know how to.
It's like, I know I should do it, but I don't really enjoy these last couple months.
Yeah, that's you.
And I've had those things.
Like, you know what?
I'm just this piece and quiet.
Enjoy it while you can.
Everything is great.
And I'm just enjoying it while I can.
So I go back and forth.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
Chill, man.
Relax.
It's going to be fine.
Yeah.
Enjoy your time.
Like, you don't have to, you don't have to be, you know,
all militaristic right now.
Enjoy your time, your pre-baby, relaxed time, get some practical things done.
Like I said, like the practical stuff, you know, of getting the house ready and writing out some 10-year, five-year plans kind of helps.
It'll set your mind to ease a little bit.
It's going to be fine, man.
You're a good man.
And I have a lot of respect for you as a man, as
someone who has a lot of wisdom and insight and seeing the way that you care for and love Emily.
I have a lot of respect for you and you have a gentle and loving way about you that is going to make you a great dad of a little girl.
Yeah, man.
As someone's speaking from the other side, I'm not worried for you.
I think you're going to be great.
If anything, you're going to be in a few years' time, you're going to be like, dude, seriously, get your act together, Joel and Aaron.
This crap isn't that hard.
We're going to be coming to you.
You care deeply.
I think that is
And you can see that just you thinking through, man, like, am I ready?
Like, I want to make sure that I'm prepared.
I don't feel like I am.
I think that's just like another evidence of just like you, you care really deeply about things.
And I think that'll, that'll be a very good asset for you as you.
Yes.
And you know what I'll say?
You are married to an exceptional woman.
And that, that, that is,
That's like 90% of the battle right there.
You married a wonderful woman who is going to be a rock star mom.
And so you're in good shape, man.
That's a big part of it.
I'm very the right person.
Luckily, we all did.
You got this man.
Don't worry.
Thanks, guys.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
It's the best thing ever.
So art.
See that.
Yeah, it is.
And listen, I still get to play a lot of breath of the wild on my switch.
So it's not like my whole life is gone.
I mean, I have like a hundred hours in that thing.
I've gotten all the shrines.
I'm starting to max out all my armor sets and I
My next thing I'm going to do is just to get the Korak mask so I can get all 900 Korak seeds.
Which will probably take a long time.
I haven't picked it up once after I beat it.
Since you beat it?
Nice.
I'm just like, what's the point now?
Oh my gosh, you're crazy, dude.
You're nuts.
It's so fun.
I got the motorcycle.
I downloaded the DLC, so I have the motorcycle now.
And I've beat the first stage of the Master Trials, the second one.
I haven't been able to get past because the kids, like every time I've done it, the kids are watching me.
And like last time I was like on level 15 of, I think it's 20 levels in the second stage there.
And so it was one of those dark levels and Edie bumped my arm and I was holding a explosive barrel and she bumped my arm and so that I walked
into a torch while carrying the explosive barrel, instant death.
And I was just like, you know, like your visceral reaction is like to just like chuck your child across the room, you know, and throw the controller at the screen.
But I didn't do that.
Don't worry.
I was, you know, I was like, oh, sweetheart, you ruined Eddie's game that he loves you.
Oh, the second one actually is the hardest.
It's freaking brutal, man.
The third one is actually a little easier just because you get more stuff.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Like the actual levels themselves are more difficult, but yeah, to me, the second one was.
Well, yeah, I'll get through it power up my master sword and I've mastered the Lionel's man.
I just make quick work of those things.
So, yeah, anyway, to end this, which must be done.
Let me see, prequel name, prequel name.
Oh, here you go.
Sam.
As a father to be, I have to say this to you.
You are strong and wise, and I am very proud of you.
I'm not going to let that die.
Very, very, very good.
All right.
Oh yeah, that's another good one.
This is where the fun begins.
All awkwardly said.
So it's officially concluded.
Yep, concluded.
We have like an hour and a half of footage here.